Xmas Eve: Nocturne Long night with no end


-GAMEPLAY-

Levels are linear- each level takes you through a few battle arenas punctuated by platforming sections. 

Movement
Mvmt Finishers:
When doing a finisher on an enemy, your character gets a burst of movement in the joystick direction. 
Finisher from ground >> dash (on ground)
Finisher from airborne >> big directional jump
Airborne burst
Provides the same movement of finishers (minus the finishing);  can do on any enemy (regardless of if they are in the finisher state. Player must be airborne and in range of enemy. Some enemies can Block this.
Enemies lose x health 
The “Sacred Spike” is a grappling hook primarily used for traversal
Sacred spike can only attach to “fate membrane”- (grapplepoints on environment/ all enemies)  
#TEST# To use sacred spike:
Option 1 throwing: Hold LT to aim, rt to throw the spike. Santa stays in place 
- used to break destructible pieces in the environment
- #also used to pull platforms out from one spot and throw them elsewhere#maybe
Option 2 traversal:
When u grapple, grappleable points get an little crosshair over them. The crosshair snaps to any enemies in the grapple path(from sweep test)
 Must be airborne**- hold rt to zip to a grappling point (ie sekiro grappling hook). You may end the grapple prematurely by releasing rt(ie DOOM meathook).
2 types of graples: Airborne Gapple and GRound Grapple
Ledge jump: When grappling, jump right when you make contact with the ledge. This allows you to do an AOE smash or an  airborne burst

			For both
				Maybe airbornborne grapple functions exactly like skiro grapple, and u canattack out of it?
If you grapple all the way to the grapple point, and the grapple point is on flat ground(not on a wall)- you do a (regular)jump (Grapple End Jump)
Timing an attack when you reach the grapple point gives an AOE attack (Grapple smash)
If you end the grapple prematurely, you are unable to grapple to the same point unless you land or grapple to another point

Airborne Gapple
GRAPPLE ROPE GAUGE:
Prevents spamming grapple to stay airborne
Discrete counts
Depletes starting from first airborne grapple
Continues to deplete when you grapple from mid air
Resets if when you touch the ground or grapple to completion
		Exiting grapple
All grapplepoints not on the same level as the player require airborne grapple. (must be airborne)
Releasing RT mid grapple does a small leapin the char model’s direction
Taking damage during grapple


GRound Grapple
Releasing Rt mid grapple does a brief slide in the char model’s direction (functionally same as dodge)
**Note: you do not need to be airborne to grapple to grapple points on the same level as you (ground grapple)
Combat
The Sacred Spike is central to combat
Staggered enemies are GRAPPLE-ABLE (On ground or airborne)
Three main aspects of fighting:
Stationary(deflecting/attacking)
Enemy Positioning/Spacing
Enemies place themselves around you in a grid
Dodging while in combat places you in the nearest open adjacent grid space (based on dodge direction)
Enemies space themselves out from the player either near or far
Only Three enemies at a time position themselves near the player. There are exceptions (unique enemies, bosses)
Far enemies shoot at the player, and incentivise grappling/movement


Deflecting
Each enemy has deflect numbers that diminishes as you deflect consecutive attacks
Enemies at <20% health can be finished
Deplete an enemies deflect count to bypass the health and let them be finished
Get over here (Pulling enemies toward you to combo them) #throwing#
Traversal(Pulling yourself toward enemies) (doom meathook)#traversal#
#OPTIONA#While grappling, the player becomes a projectile
Hitting enemies while grappling sends them flying
They may block this and interrupt your grapple
-These enemies become airborne and grapple-able
			- #OPTIONB#Grapple attacks (alternative to projectile)
				- attack mid grapple to do a grapple attack
				- sends enemies flying
Some grapple points will be in the same level as the player throughout arenas, to be used for evasion/ attacking.
Grappling to an airborne enemy works exactly as grappling to a grapple point.
Complete the grapple to get on top of  the enemy.Jumping will spike the enemy down in the reverse direction
Perform an airborne burst on a grappled enemy to spike them down
Enemy loses HP and becomes a projectile that can damage others
If enemy’s hp <0, they will not die until they land - maybe they explode?

Finisher events:
Stationary finishers, MVT finishers, Grapple finishers
Bicep Break:
Activates when you parry an enemy’s perilous blow while idle
Santa catches the enemy’s blade in his bicep and flexes, shattering the blade.




ENEMY STATES
charging
Active 
Tracking, attacking, idle, wandering

Staggered
Projectile







